Between The Government of The Arab Republic of Egypt and The Government of The Republic of India For The Promotion and Reciprocal Protection of Investments 

The Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt and The Government of the Republic of India (hereinafter referred to each as the "Contracting Party"); 

Desiring to create favourable conditions for fostering greater investments by investors of one Contracting Party in the territory of the other Contracting Party. 

Recognising that the encouragement and reciprocal protection under international agreement of such investments will be conducive to the stimulation of business initiatives and will increase prosperity in both Contracting Parties. 

Have agreed as follows: 


Article 1 
Definitions 

For the purposes of this Agreement: 

	(a) "companies" means corporations, firms and associations incorporated, or constituted or established under the laws in force in any part of either Contracting Party. 

	(b) "investment" means every kind of asset established or acquired, including changes in the form of such investment, in accordance with the national laws of the Contracting Party in whose territory the investment is made and in particular though not exclusively, includes; 

		(i) movable and immovable property as well as other rights such as mortgages, liens, usufruct or pledges. 

		(ii) shares in and stock and debentures of a company and any other similar forms of participation in a company. 
	
		(iii) Rights to money or to any performance under contract having a financial value; 

		(iv) Intellectual property rights, in accordance with the relevant laws of the concerned Contracting Party; 

		(v) business concessions conferred by law or under contract, including concessions to search for and extract oil and other minerals; 

(c) "investors" means any national or company of a Contracting Party. 

(d) "nationals" means persons deriving their status as nationals of a Contracting Party from the law in force in that Contracting Party. 

(e) "returns" means the monetary amounts yielded by an investment such as profit, interest, capital gains, dividends, royalties and fees; 

(f) "territory" means the territory of either Contracting Party including its territorial waters and the airspace above it and other maritime Zones including the Exclusive Economic Zone and continental shelf over which that Contracting Party has sovereignty, sovereign rights or exclusive jurisdiction in accordance with its law in force, the 1982 United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea and international law.


Article 2
Promotion and Protection of Investments

1. Each Contracting Party shall encourage and create favourable conditions for investors of the other Contracting Party to make investments in its territory, and admit such investments in accordance with its laws and policy.

2. Investments and returns of investors of each Contracting Party shall at all times be accorded fair and equitable treatment in the territory of the other Contracting Party. 


Article 3 
National Treatment and Most-Favoured-Nation Treatment 

3. Each Contracting Party shall accord to investments of investors of the other Contracting Party, treatment which shall not be less favourable than that accorded either to investments of its own investors or to investments of investors of any third State. 

2. In addition, each Contracting Party shall accord to investors of the other Contracting Party, including in respect of returns on their investments, treatment which shall not be less favourable than that accorded to investors of any third State. 

3. The provisions of paragraphs shall not be construed so as 1 and 2 above to oblige one contracting Party to extend to the investors of the other the benefit of any treatment, preference or privilege resulting from: 

	(a) Any existing or future customs union or free trade area, external tariff area, a common market, a monetary union or similar international agreement to which it is or may become a party, or 

	(b) Any matter pertaining wholly or mainly to taxation. 


Article 4 
Expropriation 

1. Investments of investors of either Contracting Party shall not be nationalised, expropriated or subjected to measures having effect equivalent to nationalisation or expropriation (hereinafter referred to as "expropriation") in the territory of the other Contracting Party except for a public interest in accordance with Law on a non-discriminatory basis and against fair and equitable compensation. Such compensation shall amount to the genuine value of the investment expropriated immediately before the expropriation or before the impending expropriation became public knowledge, whichever is the earlier, shall include interest at a fair and equitable rate until the date of payment, and shall be made without unreasonable delay, be effectively realizable and be freely transferable. 

2. The investor affected shall have a right, under the law of the Contracting Party making the expropriation, to review, by a judicial or other independent authority of that Party, of his or its case and of the valuation of his or its investment in accordance with the principles set out in paragraph (1) above. The Contracting Party making the expropriation shall make every endeavour to ensure that such reviews is carried out promptly. 

3. Where a Contracting Party expropriates the assets of a company which is incorporated or constituted under the law in force in any part of its own territory, and in which investors of the other Contracting Party own shares, it shall ensure that the provisions of paragraph (1) of this Article are applied to the extent necessary to ensure fair and equitable compensation in respect of their investment to such investors of the other Contracting Party who are owners of those shares. 


Article 5 
Compensation for Losses 

Investors of one Contracting Party whose investments in the territory of the other Contracting Party suffer losses owing to war or other armed conflict, a state of national emergency or civil disturbances in territory of the latter Contracting Party shall be accorded by the latter Contracting Party treatment, as regards restitution, indemnification, compensation or other settlement, not less favourable than that which the latter Contracting Party accords to its own investors or to investors of any third state. Resulting payments shall be freely transferable. 


Article 6 
Repatriation of Investment and Returns 

1. Each Contracting Party shall permit all funds of an investor of the other Contracting Party related to an investment in its territory to be freely transferred, without unreasonable delay and on a non-discriminatory basis. Such funds may include: 

	(a) Capital and additional capital amounts used to maintain and increase investments; 

	(b) Net operating profits including dividends and interests in proportion to their share-holding; 

	(c) Repayments of any loan, including interest ther8on, relating to tile investment; 

	(d) Payment of royalties and services fees relating to the investment; 

	(e) proceeds from sales of their shares; 

	(f) Proceeds received by investors in case of sale or partial sale or liquidation; 

	(g) the Earnings of citizens/nationals of one Contracting Party who work in connection with investment in the territory of the other Contracting Party. 

2. Nothing in paragraph (1) of this Article shall affect the transfer of any compensation under Article 5 of this Agreement. 

3. Unless otherwise agreed to between the parties, currency transfer under paragraph 1 of this Article shall be permitted in the currency of the original investment or any other freely convertible currency. Such transfer shall be made at the prevailing market rate of exchange on the date of transfer. 


Article 7 
Subrogation 

Where one Contracting Party or its designated agency has guaranteed any indemnity against non-commercial risks in respect of an investment by any of its investors in the territory of the other Contracting Party and has made payment to such investors in respect of their claims under this Agreement the other Contracting Party agrees that the first Contracting Party or its designated agency is entitled by virtue of subrogation to exercise the rights and assert the claims of those investors. The subrogated rights or claims shall not exceed the original rights or claims of such investors. 


ARTICLE 8 
Settlement of Disputes Between an Investor and A Contracting Party 

1. Any dispute between an investor of one Contracting Party and the other Contracting Party in relation to an investment of the former under this Agreement shall, as far as possible, be settled amicably through negotiations between the parties to the dispute. 

2. Any such dispute which has not been amicably settled within a period of six months may, if both Parties agree. be submitted: 

	(a) for resolution. in accordance with the law of the Contracting Party which has admitted the investment to that Contracting Party's competent judicial or administrative bodies; or 

	(b) to international conciliation under the Conciliation Rules of the United Nations Commission on International Trade Law. 

3. Should the Parties fail to agree on a dispute settlement procedure provided under paragraph 2 of this article or where a dispute is referred to conciliation but conciliation proceedings are terminated other than by signing of a settlement agreement, the dispute may be referred to Arbitration. The Arbitration procedure shall be as follows: 

	(a) If the Contracting Party of the investor and the other Contracting Party are both parties to the Convention on the Settlement of Investment Disputes between States and Nationals of other States, 1965 and the investor consents in writing to submit the dispute to the International Centre for the Settlement of Investment disputes such a dispute shall be referred to the Centre; or 

	(b) If both parties to the dispute so agree, under the Additional Facility for the Administration of Conciliation, Arbitration and Fact-Finding Proceedings; or 

	(c) To an ad hoc arbitral tribunal by either party to the dispute in accordance with the Arbitration Rules of the United Nations Commission on International Trade Law 1976, subject to the following modifications; 

		(i) The appointing authority under Article 7 of the Rules shall be the President, the Vice-President or the next senior Judge of the International Court of Justice, who is not a national of either Contracting Party. The third arbitrator shall not be a national of either Contracting Party. 

		(ii) The parties shall appoint their respective arbitrators within two months.

		(iii) The arbitral award shall be made in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement. Such award shall be final and binding on parties to the dispute. 

		(iv) The arbitral tribunal shall state the basis of its decision and give reasons upon the request of either party. 


Article 9 
Settlement of Disputes Between the Contracting Parties 

1. Disputes between the contracting Parties concerning the interpretation or application of this Agreement should, as far as possible, be settled through negotiation. 

2. If a dispute between the Contracting Parties cannot thus be settled within six months from the time the dispute arose, it shall upon the request of either Contracting Party be submitted to an arbitral tribunal. 

3. Such an arbitral tribunal shall be constituted for each individual case in the following way. Within two months of the receipt of the request for arbitration( each Contracting Party shall appoint one member of the tribunal. Those two members shall then select a national of a third State who on approval by the two Contracting Parties shall be appointed Chairman of the tribunal. The Chairman shall be appointed within two months from the date of appointment of the other two members. 

4. If within the periods specified in paragraph (3) of this Article the necessary appointments have not been made, either Contracting Party may, in the absence of any other agreement invite the President of the International Court of Justice to make any necessary appointments. If the President is a national of either Contracting Party or if he is otherwise prevented from discharging the said function, the Vice-President shall be invited to make the necessary appointments. If the Vice-President is a national of either Contracting Party or if he too is prevented from discharging the said function, the Member of the International Court of Justice next in seniority who is not national of either Contracting Party shall be invited to make the necessary appointments. 

5. The arbitral tribunal shall reach its decision by a majority of votes. Such decisions will be final and binding on both Contracting Parties. Each Contracting Party shall bear the cost of its own member of the tribunal and of its representation in the arbitral proceedings; the cost of the Chairman and the remaining costs shall be borne in equal parts by the Contracting Parties. The tribunal may however, in its decision direct that a higher proportion of costs shall be borne by one of the two Contracting Parties and this award will be final and binding on both Contracting Parties. The tribunal shall determine its own procedure. 


Article 10 
Entry and Sojourn of Personnel 

A Contracting Party shall, Subject to its laws applicable from time to time relating to the entry and sojourn of non-citizens, permit natural persons of the other Contracting Party and personnel employed by companies of the other Contracting Party to enter and remain in its territory for the purpose of engaging in activities connected with investments. 


Article 11 
Applicable Laws 

1. Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, all investment shall be governed by the laws in force in the territory of the Contracting Party in which such investments are made. 

2. Notwithstanding paragraph (1) of this Article nothing in this Agreement precludes the host Contracting Party from taking action for the protection of its essential, security interests or in circumstances of extreme emergency in accordance with its laws normally and reasonably applied on a non-discriminatory basis. 


Article 12 
Application of Other Rules 

If the provisions of law of either Contracting Party or obligations under international law existing at present or established hereafter between the Contracting Parties in addition to the present Agreement contain rules, whether general or specific, entitling investments by investors of the other Contracting Party to a treatment more favourable than is provided for by the present Agreement, such rules shall to the extent that they are more favourable prevail over the present Agreement. 


Article 13 
Scope of the Agreement 

This agreement shall apply to all investments made by investors of either Contracting Party in the territory of the other Contracting Party, accepted as such in accordance with 1ts laws and regulations, whether made before or after the coming into force of this Agreement. This agreement shall not apply to disputes existing before its entry into force. 


Article 14 
Entry into Force 

This Agreement shall be subject to ratification and shall enter into force on the date of exchange of Instruments of Ratification. 


Article 15 
Duration and Termination 

1. This Agreement shall remain in force for a period of ten years and thereafter it shall be deemed to have been automatically extended unless either Contracting Party gives to the other Contracting Party a written notice of its intention to terminate the Agreement. The Agreement shall stand terminated one year from the date on receipt of such written notice. 

2. Notwithstanding termination of this Agreement pursuant to paragraph (1) of this Article, the Agreement shall continue to be effective for a further period of ten years from the date of its termination in respect of investments made or acquired before the date of termination of this Agreement. 


In witness whereof the undersigned, duly authorised thereto by their respective Governments, have signed this Agreement.

Done at New Delhi on the Ninth of April, 1997 in two originals each in the Arabic, English and Hindi languages, all texts being equally authentic.

In case of any divergence, the English text shall prevail.

For the Government of The Arab Republic of Egypt
For the Government of The Republic of India