AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT THE REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY ON THE PROMOTION AND RECIPROCAL PROTECTION OF INVESTMENTS 

The Arab Republic of Egypt and the Republic of Hungary (hereinafter referred to as the "Contracting Parties"), 

Desiring to intensify economic cooperation to the mutual benefit of both States, 

Intending to create and maintain favourable conditions for investments of investors of one state in the territory of the other state, and 

Conscious that the promotion and reciprocal protection of investments, according to the present Agreement, stimulates the business initiatives in this field, 

Have agreed as follows: 


Article 1
DEFINITIONS 

For the purposes of this agreement 

1. The term "investment" shall comprise every kind of asset invested in connection with economic activities by an investor of one Contracting Party in the territory of the other Contracting Party in accordance with the laws and regulations of the latter and shall include, in particular, though not exclusively: 

	(a) movable and immovable property as well as any other property rights in rem such as mortgages, liens, pledges and similar rights; 

	(b) shares, stocks and debentures of companies or any other form of participation in a company; 

	(c) claims to money or to any performance, including technical assistance, having an economic value associated with an investment; 

	(d) intellectual property rights, including copyrights, trade marks, patents, industrial designs, technical processes, know-how, trade secrets, trade names and goodwill associated with an investment; 

	(e) any right conferred by law or under contract and any licenses and permits pursuant to law, including the concessions to search for, extract, cultivate or exploit natural resources. 

Any alteration of the form in which assets are invested shall not affect their character as investment. 

[2.]

	(a) The term "natural person" shall mean any natural person having the nationality of either Contracting Party in accordance with its laws. 

	(b) The term "legal person" shall mean with respect to either Contracting Party, any entity incorporated or constituted in accordance with and recognized as legal person by its laws. In the case of the Republic of Hungary, this term also includes any body of persons having no legal personality but considered as a company by its laws. 

3. The term "returns" shall mean amounts yielded by an investment and in particular, though not exclusively, includes profits, interest, capital gains, dividends, royalties or fees. 


Article 2 
PROMOTION AND PROTECTION OF INVESTMENTS 

1. Each Contracting Party shall encourage and create favourable conditions for investors of the other Contracting Party to make investments in its territory and shall admit such investments in accordance with its laws and regulations. 

2. Investments of investors or either Contracting Party shall at all times be accorded fair and equitable treatment and shall enjoy full protection and security in the territory of the other Contracting Party. 

3. Each Contracting Party shall, subject to its laws and policies applicable from time to time relating to the entry and sojourn of non-citizens, natural persons who are nationals of the permit other Contracting Party and personnel employed by companies of that other Contracting Party to enter and remain in its territory for the purpose of engaging in activities associated with investments as long as such investments exist. 


Article 3 
NATIONAL ANO MOST-FAVOURED-NATION TREATMENT 

1. Each Contracting Party shall in its territory accord investments and returns of investors of the other Contracting Party treatment which is fair and equitable and not less favourable than that which it accords to investments and returns of its own investors or to investments and returns of investors of any third State whichever is more favourable. 

2. Each Contracting Party shall in its territory accord to investors of the other Contracting Party, as regards management, maintenance, use, enjoyment or disposal of their investment, treatment which is fair and equitable and not less favourable than that which it accords to its own investors or of any third State, whichever is more favourable. 

3. The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article shall not be construed so as to oblige one Contracting Party to extend to the investors of the other the benefit of any treatment, preference or privilege which may be extended by the former Contracting Party by virtue of:

	(a) agreements leading to such unions or institutions or other forms of regional cooperation to which either of the Contracting Parties is or may become a party;

	(b) any international agreement or arrangement relating wholly or mainly to taxation. 


Article 4 
COMPENSATION FOR LOSSES 

1. When investments by investors of either Contracting Party suffer losses owing to war, armed conflict, a State of national emergency, revolt, insurrection, riot or other similar events in the territory of the other Contracting Party, they shall be accorded by the latter Contracting Party treatment, as regards restitution, indemnification, compensation or other settlement, not less favourable than that which the latter Contracting Party accords to its own investors or to investors of any third State. 

2. Without prejudice to paragraph 1 of this Article, investors of one Contracting Party who in any of the events referred to in that paragraph suffer losses in the territory of the other Contracting Party resulting from: 

	(a) requisitioning of their property by its forces or authorities; 

	(b) destruction of their property by its forces or authorities which was not caused in combat action or was not required by the necessity of the situation. 

Shall be accorded just and adequate compensation for the losses sustained during the period of the requisitioning or as a result of the destruction of the property. Resulting payments shall be freely transferable in freely convertible currency without unjustified delay. 


Article 5
EXPROPRIATION 

1. Investments of investors of either Contracting Party shall not be nationalised, expropriated or subjected to measures having effect equivalent to nationalisation or expropriation (hereinafter referred to as "expropriation") in the territory of the other Contracting Party except for a public purpose. The expropriation shall be carried out under due process of law, on a non-discriminatory basis and shall be accompanied by provisions for the payment of prompt, adequate and effective compensation. Such Compensation shall amount to the market value of the investment expropriated immediately before expropriation or impending expropriation became public knowledge, be effectively realizable and be freely transferable in freely convertible currency without unjustified delay; otherwise it shall include interest. 

[2.] in accordance with the principles set out in this Article. 

3. The provisions of paragraph 1 of this Article shall also apply where a Contracting Party expropriates the assets of a company which is incorporated or constituted under the law in force in any part of its own territory, and in which investors of the other Contracting Party own shares. 


Article 6 
TRANSFERS

1. The Contracting Parties shall guarantee the transfer of payments related to investments and returns. The transfers shall be made in a freely convertible currency without any restriction and undue delay. such transfers shall include in particular, though not exclusively: 

	(a) capital and additional amounts to maintain or increase the investment; 

	(b) profits, interest, dividends and other current income; 

	(c) funds in repayment of loans; 

	(d) royalties or fees; 

	(e) proceeds of sale or liquidation of the investment; 

	(f) the earnings of natural persons subject to the laws and regulations of the Contracting Party in which investments have been made. 

2. For the purpose of this Agreement, exchange rates shall be the official rates effective for the current transactions at the date of transfer, unless otherwise agreed.


Article 7 
SUBROGATION 

1. If a Contracting Party or its designated agency make payment to its own investor. under a guarantee programme of non-commercial risks it has accorded in respect of an investment in the territory of the other Contracting Party, the latter Contracting Party shall recognize: 

	(a) the assignment, whether, under the law or pursuant to legal transaction in that country, of any right or claim by the investor to the former Contracting Party or its designated agency, as well as, 

	(b) that the former Contracting Party or its designated agency is entitled by virtue of subrogation to exercise the rights and enforce the claims of that investor and shall assume the obligations related to the investment. 

2. The subrogated rights or claims shall not exceed the original rights or claims of the investors. 


Article 8 
SETTLEMENT OF INVESTMENT DISPUTES BETWEEN A CONTRACTING PARTY AND AN INVESTOR OF THE OTHER CONTRACTING PARTY 

1. Any dispute which may arise between an investor of one Contracting Party and the other Contracting Party 

2. If any dispute between an investor of one Contracting Party and the other Contracting Party cannot be thus settled within a period of six months, any of the parties to the dispute shall be entitled to submit the case to the International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID) having regard to the applicable provisions of the Convention on the Settlement of Investment Disputes between States and Nationals of other States opened for signature at Washington D. C. on 18 March 1965. 


Article 9 
SETTLEMENT OF DISPUTES BETWEEN THE CONTRACTING PARTIES

1. Disputes between the Contracting Parties concerning the interpretation or application of this Agreement shall, if possible, be settled through consultation or negotiation. 

2. If the dispute cannot be thus settled within six months, it shall upon the request of either Contracting Party be submitted to an Arbitral Tribunal in accordance with the provisions of this Article

3. The Arbitral Tribunal shall be constituted for each individual case in the following way. Within two months of the receipt of the request for arbitration, each Contracting Party shall appoint one member of the Tribunal. These two members shall then select a national of a third state who on approval of the two Contracting Parties shall be appointed Chairman of the Tribunal (hereinafter referred to as the "Chairman"). The Chairman shall be appointed within three months from the date of appointment of the other two members. 

4. If within the periods specified in paragraph 3 of this Article the necessary appointments have not been made, a request may be made to the President of the International Court of Justice to make the appointments. If he happens to be a national of either Contracting Party. or if he is otherwise prevented from discharging the said function, the Vice-President shall be invited to make the appointments. If the Vice President also happens to be a national of either Contracting Party or is prevented from discharging the said function, the member of the International Court of Justice next in seniority who is not a national of either Contracting Party shall be invited to make the appointments.

5. The Arbitral Tribunal shall reach its decision by a majority of votes. Such decision shall be binding. Each Contracting Party shall bear the cost of its own arbitrator and its representation in the arbitral proceedings; the cost of the Chairman and the remaining costs shall be borne in equal parts by both Contracting Parties. The Arbitral Tribunal shall determine its own procedure, the seat, the language and the term of rendering the decision. 


Article 10 
APPLICATION OF OTHER RULES AND SPECIAL COMMITMENTS 

1. Where a matter is governed simultaneously both by this Agreement and by another international agreement whichever rules are more favourable to his case.

2. If the treatment to be accorded by one Contracting Party to investors of the other Contracting Party in accordance with its laws and regulations or other specific provisions of contracts is more favourable than that accorded by the Agreement the more favourable shall be accorded. 


Article 11
ENTRY INTO FORCE, DURATION AND TERMINATION 

1. The Contracting Parties shall notify each other that their constitutional requirements for the entry into force of this Agreement have been complied with. 

2. This Agreement shall enter into force on the date of the second notification. This Agreement shall remain in force for a period of ten years and shall continue in force thereafter unless, one year before the expiry of the initial or any subsequent periods, either Contracting Party notifies the other in writing of its intention to terminate the Agreement. 

3. In respect of investments made prior to the termination of this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall continue to be effective for a period of ten years from the date of termination. 


IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned duly authorized have siqned this Agreement.

DONE in duplicate in Cairo this day of ___ May 1995, in the Arabic, Hungarian and English languages, all texts being equally authentic. In case of any divergence of interpretation, the English text shall prevail. 

For the Arab Republic of Egypt 
AMBASSADOR RAFIK SALAH EL DIN
Advisor to the Minister of State for International Cooperation

For the Republic of Hungary
IMRE DUNAI
State Secretary of the Ministry of Industry and Trade