AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE CZECH REPUBLIC AND THE ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT FOR THE PROMOTION AND PROTECTION OF INVESTMENTS 
The Czech Republic and the Arab Republic of Egypt (hereinafter referred to as the "Contracting Parties"),
Desiring to develop economic cooperation of both States on the basis of equality and mutual benefit, 
Preoccupied to encourage and create favorable conditions for investments of investors of one State in the territory of the other State, and 
Conscious that the promotion and reciprocal protection of investments, according to the present Agreement, stimulates the business initiatives in these fields, 

Have agreed as follows:


Article 1 
Definitions 

For the purpose of this Agreement: 

1. The term "investment" shall comprise every kind of asset invested by an investor of one Contracting Party in the territory of the other Contracting Party in accordance with the laws and regulations of the latter and shall include, in particular, though not exclusively: 

	(a) movable and immovable property as well as any other property rights in rem such as mortgages, liens, pledges, and similar rights; 

	(b) shares, stocks and debentures of companies or any other form of participation in a company; 

	(c) claims to money or to any performance having an economic value associated with an investment; 

	(d) intellectual property rights, including copyrights, trade marks, patents, industrial designs, technical processes, know-how, trade secrets, trade names and goodwill; 

	(e) any right conferred by laws or under contract and any licenses and permits pursuant to law, including the concessions to search for, extract, cultivate or exploit natural resources.

Any alteration of the form in which assets are invested shall not affect their classification as investment. 

2. The term "investor" shall mean any natural or legal person who invests in the territory of the other Contracting Party. 

	(a) The term "natural person" shall mean any natural person having the nationality of either Contracting Party in accordance with its laws. 

	(b) The term "legal person" shall mean with respect to either Contracting Party, any entity incorporated or constituted in accordance with, and recognized as legal person by its laws, having permanent residence in the territory of one of the Contracting Party. 

3. The term "returns" shall mean amounts yielded by an investment and in particular, though not exclusively, includes profits, interest, capital gains, shares, dividends, royalties or fees. 


Article 2 
Promotion and Protection of Investments 

1. Each Contracting Party shall encourage and create favourable conditions for investors of the other Contracting Party to make investments in its territory and, shall admit such investments.

2. Investments owned by investors of either Contracting Party shall at all times be accorded fair and equitable treatment and shall enjoy full protection and security in the territory of the other Contracting Party. 


Article 3 
National and Host-Favoured-Nation Treatment 

1. Each Contracting Party shall in its territory accord investments and Party treatment favourable than returns of investors of the other Contracting which is fair and equitable and not less that which it accords to investments and returns of its own investors or to investments and returns of investors of any third State. 

2. Each Contracting Party investors of the other shall in its territory accord to Contracting Party, as regard, management, maintenance, use, enjoyment or disposal of their investment, treatment which is fair and equitable and not less favourable than that which it accords to its own investors or of any third State.

3. The provisions of paragraph 1 and 2 of this Article shall not be construed so as to oblige one Contracting Party to the other the benefit of any extend to the investors of treatment, preference or privilege which maY be extended by the former Contracting Party by virtue of: 

	(a) any customs union or free trade area or a monetary union or similar international agreement or other forms of regional cooperation to which either of the Contracting Party is or may become a Party; or 

	(b) any international agreement or arrangement relating wholly or mainly to taxation. 


Article 4
Compensation for Damage or Loss 

1. When investments by investors of either Contracting Party suffer loss owing to war, armed conflict, a state of national emergency, revolt, insurrection, riot or other similar events in the territory of the other Contracting Party, they shall be accorded by the latter Contracting Party treatment, as regards restitution, indemnification. compensation or other settlement, not less favourable than that which the latter Contracting Party accords to its own investors or to investors of any third State. 

2. Without prejudice to paragraph 1 of this Article, investors of one Contracting Party who in any of the events referred to in that paragraph suffer damage or loss in the territory of the other Contracting Party resulting from:

	(a) Requistioning of their authorities, property by its forces or 

	(b) destruction of their property by its forces or authorities which was not caused in combat action or was not required by the necessity of the situation shall be accorded just and adequate compensation for the damage or loss sustained during the period as a result of the destruction of the requisitioning or of the property. Resulting payments shall be freely transferable in freely convertible currency without delay. 


Article 5
Expropriation 

1. Investments owned by investors of either Contracting Party shall not be nationalised, expropriated or subjected to measures having direct effect equivalent to nationalisation or expropriation (hereinafter referred to as "expropriation") in the territory of the other Contracting Party except for a public purpose. The expropriation shall be carried out under due process accompanied adequate and of law. on a non-discriminatory basis and shall be by the provision for the payment of prompt, effective amount to the market compensation. Such compensation shall value of the investment expropriated immediately before expropriation or impending expropriation became public knowledge. shall be effectively realizable and be freely transferable in free convertible currency and made without unjustified delay, otherwise it shall include interest.

2. The investor affected shall have a right, to prompt review, by a judicial or other independent authority of that of the valuation of Contracting Party, of his or its case and his or its investment in accordance with the principles set out in this Article. 


Article 6 
Transfers 

1. The Contracting Parties shall guarantee the transfer of payments related to investments and returns. The transfers shall be made in a free convertible currency, without undue restriction and delay, Such transfers shall include in particular, though not exclusively: 

	(a) capital and additional amounts to maintain or increase the investment; 

	(b) profits, interest, dividends and other current income; 

	(c) funds in repayment of loans; 

	(d) royalties or fees; 

	(e) proceeds of sale or liquidation of the investment; 

	(f) the earnings of natural persons subject to the laws and regulations of that Contracting Party where investments have been made. 

2. For the purpose of this Agreement, exchange rates shall be the official rates effective for the current transactions at the date of transfer, unless otherwise agreed. 


Article 7 
Subrogation

If a Contracting Party or its designated agency makes payment to its own investors under a guarantee system it has accorded in respect of an investment in the territory of the other Contracting Party, provided that they have exhausted all the local remedies in the host State the latter Contracting Party shall recognize: 

	(a) the assignment, whether under the law or pursuant to a legal transaction in that country, of any right or claim by the investor to the former Contracting Party or its designated agency, as well as, 

	(b) that the former Contracting Party or its designated agency is entitled by virtue of subrogation to exercise the rights and enforce the claims of that investor and shall as sUllie the obligations related to the investment. 


Article 8 
Settlement of Investment Disputes between a Contracting Party and an Investor of the other Contracting Party 

1. Any dispute which may arise between an investor of one Contracting Party and the other Contracting Party in connection with an investment on the territory of that other Contracting Party shall be subject to negotiations between the parties in dispute. 

2. If any dispute between an investor of one Contracting Party and the other Contracting Party continues to exist after a period of six months, any party in dispute shall be entitled to submit the case either to: 

	(a) the International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes between States and Nationals of Other States (ICSID) having regard to the applicable provisions of the Convention on the Settlement 	of Investment Disputes between States and Nationals of Other States opened for signature at Washington D.C. on 18 March 1965, in the event both Contracting Parties shall have become a party to this Convention; or
	
	(b) the parties in dispute can agree upon an international arbitration institution applying the rules of the United Nations Commission on International Trade Law (UNCITRAL). The parties to the dispute may agree in writing to modify these Rules. The arbitral awards shall be final and binding on both Parties to the dispute. 


Article 9 
Settlement of Disputes Between the Contracting Parties 

1. Disputes between the Contracting Parties concerning the interpretation or application of this Agreement shall, if possible, be settled through consultation or negotiation. 

2. If the dispute cannot be so settled within six months, it shall upon the request of either Contracting Party be submitted to an Arbitral Tribunal in accordance with the provisions of this Article

3. The Arbitral Tribunal shall be constituted for each individual case in the following way. Within two months of the receipt of the request for arbitration, each Contracting Party shall appoint one member of the Tribunal. These two members shall then select a national of a third State who on approval of the two Contracting Parties shall be appointed Chairman of the Tribunal (hereinafter referred to as the "Chairman"). The Chairman shall be appointed within three months from the date of appointment of the other two members. 

4. If within the periods specified in paragraph 3 of this Article the necessary appointments have not been made, a request may be made to the President of the International Court of Justice to make the appointments. If he happens to be a national of either Contracting Party, or if he is otherwise prevented from discharging the said function, the Vice-President shall be invited to make the appointments. If the Vice-President also happens to be a national of either Contracting Party or is prevented from discharging the said function, the member of the International Court of Justice next in seniority who is not a national of either Contracting Party shall be invited to make the appointments. 

5. The Arbitral Tribunal shall reach its decision by a majority of votes. Such decision shall be binding. Each Contracting Party shall bear the cost of its own arbitrator and its representation in the arbitral proceedings; the cost of the Chairman and the remaining costs shall be borne in equal parts by both 
Contracting Parties. The Arbitral Tribunal shall determine its seat, the applicable substantive law, its procedure, rules of evidence and the term of arbitration, unless the parties otherwise agree. 


Article 10 
Application of Other Rules and Special Commitments 

1. Where a matter is Agreement and by governed simultaneously both by this another international agreement to which both Contracting Parties are parties, nothing in this Agreement shall prevent either Contracting Party or any of its investors who own investments in the territory of the other Contracting Party from taking advantage of whichever rules are more favourable to his case. 

2. If the treatment to be accorded by one Contracting Party to investors of the other Contracting Party in accordance with its laws and regulations or other specific provisions of contracts is more favourable than that accorded by the Agreement, the more favourable shall be accorded. 


Article 11 
Applicability of this Agreement 

The provisions of this Agreement shall apply to future investments made by investors of one Contracting Party in the territory of the other Contracting Party, also to the existing investments on the date of this Agreement coming into force. 


Article 12 
Entry into Force, Duration and Termination 

1. Each of the Contracting Parties shall notify the other of the completion of the procedures required by its law for bringing this Agreement into force. This agreement shall enter into force thirty days from the date of the second notification.

2. This Agreement shall remain in force for a period of ten years and shall continue in force thereafter unless, one year before the expiry of the initial or any subsequent periods, either Contracting Party notifies the other in writing of its intention to terminate the agreement.

3. In respect of investments made prior to the termination of this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall continue to be effective for a period of ten years from the date of termination. 


IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned duly authorized have signed this Agreement. 

DONE in duplicate in Cairo, this 29th day of May, 1993, in the Czech, Arabic and English languages, all texts being equally authentic. In case of any divergence of interpretation, the English text shall prevail. 


On behalf of the Czech Republic 
Doc. Ing. Josef Zieleniec
Minister of: Foreign Affairs 

On behalf of the Arab Republic of Egypt 
Dr. Maurice Makramala 
Minister of State for International Cooperation