AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE EGYPTIAN GOVERNMENT CONCERNING THE ENCOURAGEMENT AND RECIPROCAL PROTECTION OF INVESTMENTS

Preamble

The Egyptian Government and The Macedonian Government, hereinafter referred to as the "Contracting Parties",

Desiring to intensify economic cooperation to the mutual benefit of both States,

Intending to create and maintain favorable conditions for investments by investors of one Contracting Party in the territory of the other Contracting Party,

Recognizing the need to promote and protect foreign investments with the aim to foster the economic prosperity of both Contracting Parties,

Have agreed as follows;


ARTICLE 1
DEFINITIONS

For the purpose of this agreement:

1. The term "investment" means any kind of asset invested by an investor of one Contracting Party in the territory of the other Contracting Party, provided that they have been made in accordance with the laws and regulations of the other Contracting Party and shall include in particular, though not exclusively:

	(a) movable and immovable property, guarantees and property rights, such as servitude, mortgages and other rights under the law;
	
	(b) shares, parts or any other kind of participation in companies:

	(c) claims to money or to any performance having an economic value;

	(d) copyrights, trade marks, patents or other intellectual or industrial property rights, know-how, and goodwill;

	(e) any rights of a financial nature granted by law or agreement, such as concessions granted in accordance with applicable regulations, that regulate the performance of activities including to search for, process, extract and exploit natural resources

2. The term "investor" refers to any natural or legal person of one Contracting Party that invested in investing, or intends to invest on the territory of the other Contracting Party.

	(a) The term "natural person" refers with regard to either Contracting Party to any natural person who is a national of the parties to this Agreement.

	(b) The term "legal person" refers with regard to either Contracting Party to any legal person including, enterprises, companies, corporations, business associations and or organizations established or organized in accordance with the respective state legislation of either Contracting Party having their seat in the territory of that Contracting Party;

3. The term "return" means money yielded by and in particular, profits, interest, dividends, royalties, any fees, including reinvested capital and capital gains;

4. The term "territory" means the Egyptian territory and the Macedonian territory including land, water and in air over which the State concerned exercises, in accordance with international law, sovereign rights and jurisdiction of such areas.

5. Any change in the form of an investment, does not affect its character as an investment.


ARTICLE 2
PROMOTION AND ADMISSION OF INVESTMENTS

1. Each Contracting Party shall promote, in its territory investments by investors of the other Contracting Party and admit such investments in accordance with its laws and regulations.

2. When a Contracting Party shall have admitted an investment in its territory, it shall grant in accordance with its laws and regulations the necessary permits in connection such an investment and with the carrying out of licensing agreements and contracts for technical commercial or administrative assistance. Each Contracting Party shall, whenever needed, endeavor to issue the necessary authorizations concerning the activities of consultants and other qualified persons of foreign nationality.


ARTICLE 3
PROTECTION AND TREATMENT OF INVESTMENTS

1. Each contracting Party shall protect within its territory, investments made in accordance with its laws and regulations by investors of the other Contracting Party and shall not impair by unreasonable or discriminatory measures the management maintenance, use, enjoyment, extension, sale and should it so happen, liquidation of such investments.

2. Each Contracting Party shall ensure fair and equitable treatment, within its territory, of the investments of the investors of the other Contracting Party. This treatment shall not be less favorable than that granted by each Contracting Party to investments made by its own investors or by investors of a third State.

3. The treatment of items 1 and 2 of this Article shall not apply to privileges which either Contracting Party accords to investors of a third State because of its membership in, or association with, a free trade area, customs union, common market or to an existing or future convention on the avoidance of double taxation of a convention or other fiscal matters.


ARTICLE 4
EXPROPRIATION AND COMPENSATION

1. Neither of the Contracting Parties shall take, measures of expropriation, nationalization or any other measure having the same effect against investments belonging to investors of the other Contracting Party, unless the measures are taken in the public interest, on a non-discriminator basis and under due process of law and provided that provisions be made for effective and adequate compensation.
Such compensation shall amount to the market value of the expropriated investment immediately before the expropriation. The compensation for damage includes also the interest calculated on the annual LIBOR basis from the date of nationalization to the date of payment.

2. The amount of compensation shall be settled in the convertible currency and freely transferable and paid without undue delay to the person entitled there to without regard to its residence or domicile.

A compensation shall be deemed to be made "without undue delay" if effected within such period as is normally required for the completion or transfer formalities.

The said period shall commence on the day on which the relevant request has been submitted and may not exceed three months.

3. Investors of either Contracting Party who suffer losses of their investments in the territory of the other Contracting Party due to war or other armed conflict, a state of national emergency, revolt, insurrection or riot shall be accorded, with respect to restitution, indemnification, compensation or other settlement, a treatment which is no less favorable than that accorded to its own investors or to investors of any third State.
Resulting payments shall, whenever possible, be transferable without delay in the convertible and freely transferable currency.


ARTICLE 5
TRANSFER

1. Each Contracting Party, in whose territory investments have been made by Nestors of the other Contracting Party, shall grant those investors a free transfer of the payments relating to these investments, particularly of:

	(a) The capital and additional sums necessary for the maintenance and development of the investment;

	(b) Gains, profits, interests, dividends and other current income;
	
	(c) funds in repayment of loans including interest regularly contracted and documented and directly related to a specific investment;
	
	(d) royalties and fees;
	
	(e) the proceeds from a total or partial sale or liquidation of an investment;
	
	(f) compensations provided for in Article 4:
	
	(g) the carvings of nationals of one Contracting Party who are allowed to work in connection with an investment in the territory of the other.

2. Transfers shall be effected without delay in a freely convertible currency in the normal applicable exchange rate at the date of the transfer, in accordance with the procedures established by the Contracting Party in whose territory the investment was made, provided that all financial obligations toward this Contracting Party have been fulfilled.

3. The Contracting Parties undertake to accord to transfers referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article a treatment no less favorable than that accorded to transfers originating from investments made by investors of any third State.


ARTICLE 6
SUBROGATION

1. If a Contracting party or any agency makes a payment to any of its investors under a guarantee or insurance, it has contracted in respect of an investment, the other Contracting Party shall recognize the validity of the subrogation in favor of the former Contracting Party or agency to any right or title held by the investor.

The Contracting Party or any agency that is subrogated in the rights of an investor shall be entitled to the same rights as those of the investor and to the extent that they exercise such rights they shall do so subject to the obligations of the investor pertaining to such insured investment.

2. In the case of subrogation as defined in paragraph 1 above, the investor shall not pursue a claim unless authorized to do so by the Contracting Party or any agency thereof.


ARTICLE 7
SETTLEMENT OF DISPUTES BETWEEN ONE CONTRACTING PARTY AND AN INVESTOR OF THE OTHER CONTRACTING PARTY

1. Disputes between one of the Contracting Parties and an investor of the other Contracting Party shall be notified in writing, including detailed information, by the investor to the host Contracting Party of the investment. Such dispute should be settled by means of a friendly agreement.

2. If the dispute cannot be settled amicably within six months from the date of the written notification by which the other Contracting Party has been advised about the subject of the dispute, the investor concerned may suggest, at his own choice, that the dispute be submitted to:

	- The competent court of the Contracting Party in the territory of which the investment has been made;

	- the "ad hoc" court of arbitration established under the Arbitration Rules of Procedure of the United Nations Commission of International Trade Law (UNICTRAL).

	- The International Center for Settling Investment Disputes (ICSID), in accordance with the Convention for Settling Investment Disputes between States and Citizens, open for signature since 18.03.1965 in Washington, D.C., if both Contracting Parties signed this Convention;

3. Once the dispute has been submitted to the competent tribunal of the Contracting Party or to international arbitration, the choice of one or the other procedure will be definitive.

4. The arbitration shall be based on:

	- the provisions of this Agreement;

	- the national law of the Contracting Party in whose territory the investment was made, including the rules relative to conflates of law;	

	- the rules and the universally accepted principles of international law

5. The arbitration decisions shall be final and binding for the Parties to the dispute. Each Contracting Party undertakes to execute the decisions in accordance with its national law.


ARTICLE 8
Settlement of Disputes between Contracting Parties

1. Disputes between Contracting Parties regarding the interpretation and application of the provisions of this Agreement shall be settled by consultation and negotiation through diplomatic channels.

2. If both Contracting Parties cannot reach an agreement within six months after the beginning of the dispute between themselves, it shall, upon request of either Contracting Party, be submitted to an arbitration tribunal which shall be constituted as follows: Each Contracting Party shall appoint an arbitrator and these two arbitrators shall nominate a chairman who shall be a national of a third State, which maintains diplomatic relations with both Contracting Parties.

3. If one of the Contracting Parties has not appointed its arbitrator and has not followed the invitation of the other Contracting Party to make that appointment within two months, the arbitrator shall be appointed upon the request of that Contracting Party by the president of the International Court of Justice.

4. If both arbitrators cannot reach an agreement about the choice of the chairman within two months after their appointment, the latter shall be appointed upon the request of either Contracting Party by the President of the International Court of Justice.

5. If, in the cases specified under paragraphs 3 and 4 of this Article, the President of the International Court of Justice is prevented from carrying out the said function, or if he is a national of either Contracting Party, the appointment shall be is made by the vice-President, and if the latter is prevented or if he is national of either Contracting Party, the appointment shall be made by the most senior Judge of the Court who is not a national of either Contracting Party.

6. Subject to other provisions made by the Contracting Parties, the tribunal shall determine its procedure. The tribunal shall reach its decisions by a majority of votes.

7. The decisions of the tribunal are final and binding for each Contracting Party.

8. Each Contracting Party shall bear the costs of its own member of the tribunal and of its representation in the arbitrate proceedings; the costs of the chairman and remaining costs shall be borne in equal parts by the Contracting Parties. The tribunal may. However, decide that a higher proportion of costs shall be borne by one of the Contracting Parties and this award shall be binding on both Contracting Parties.


ARTICLE 9
MOST FAVORABLE PROVISIONS

If the domestic law of either Contracting Party, or obligations under international law existing at present of established hereafter between the Contracting Parties in addition to this Agreement contain a regulation whether general or specific or specific entitling investments by investors of the other Contracting Party to a treatment more favorable than is provided for by this Agreement, such regulation shall to the extent that is more favorable prevail over this Agreement.


ARTICLE 10
CONSULTATIONS AND EXCHANGE OF INFORMATION

Upon request by either Contracting Party, the other Contracting Party shall agree promptly to consolations on the interpretation or application of this Agreement.

Upon request by either Contracting Party, information shall be exchanged on the impact that the laws, regulations, decisions, administrative practices or procedures or policies of other Contracting Party may have on investments covered by this Agreement.


ARTICLE 11
SCOPE OF APPLICATION

The present Agreement shall apply to investments in the territory of a Contracting Party made in accordance with its laws and regulations by investors of the other Contracting Party on the date of entering into force of this Agreement.


ARTICLE 12
ENTRY INTO FORCE

This Agreement shall enter into force on the latter date on which either Contracting Party notifies the other that its interval legal requirements for the entry into force of this Agreement have been fulfilled.


ARTICLE 13
DURATION AND DENUNCIATION

1. This Agreement shall remain in force for a period of ten (10) years and shall continue in force thereafter for a similar period or periods unless, one year before the expiration of the initial or any subsequent period, either Contracting Party notified the other Contracting Party of its intention to denounce the Agreement.

The notice of denunciation shall become effective one year after it has been received by the other Contracting Party.

2. In respect to investments made prior to the date when the notice of denunciation of this Agreement become effective, the provisions of this Agreement shall continue to be effective for a period of ten years from the date of denunciation of this Agreement.


Done at Cairo, on the 22nd of November 1999 in two original versions, in Arabic, Macedonian and English languages, all texts being equally authentic. In case of divergence of interpretation, the English text shall prevail.

FOR THE EGYPTIAN GOVERNMENT: Amre Moussa MINISTER OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS
FOR THE MACEDONIAN GOVERNMENT: Aleksandar Dimitrov MINISTER OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS