AGREEMENT between the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt for the Promotion and Protection of Investments

The Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt;

Desiring to create favourable conditions for greater economic co-operation between them and in particular for investments by nationals and companies of one State in the territory of the other State;

Recognising that the encouragement and reciprocal protection under international agreement of such investments will be conducive to the stimulation of business initiative and will increase prosperity in both States;

Have agreed as follows:


Article 1
Definitions

For the Purposes of This Agreement

	(a) "investment" means every kind of asset and in particular, though not exclusively, includes:

		(i) movable and immovable property and any other property rights such as mortgages, liens, or pledges;
	
		(ii) shares, stock and debentures of companies or interests in the property of such companies;
	
		(iii) claims to money or to any performance under contracts having a financial value;
	
		(iv) intellectual property rights and goodwill;
	
		(v) business concessions conferred by law or under contract, including concessions to search for, cultivate, extract or exploit natural resources;
	
	(b) "returns" means the amounts yielded by an investment and in particular, though not exclusively, includes profit, interest, capital gains, dividends, royalties or fees;
	
	(c) "nationals" means:
	
		(i) in respect of the United Kingdom: physical persons deriving their status as United Kingdom nationals from the British nationality law in force in any part of the United Kingdom or in any territory for the international relations of which the Government of the United Kingdom are responsible;
	
		(ii) in respect of the Arab Republic of Egypt: physical persons who according to Egyptian legislation are considered citizens of the Arab Republic of Egypt;

	(d) "companies" means:
	
		(i) in respect of the United Kingdom: corporations, firms or associations incorporated or constituted under the law in force in any part of the United Kingdom or in any territory to which this Agreement is extended in accordance with the provisions of Article 11;
	
		(ii) in respect of the. Arab Republic of Egypt: any juridical person as well as any commercial, industrial or other company, association or organisation with or without legal personality having its seat in the territory of the Arab Republic of Egypt and lawfully existing, whether or not its activities are directed to profit;

	(e) "territory" in respect of the United Kingdom means: Great Britain and Northern Ireland and any territory to which this Agreement is extended in accordance with the provisions of Article 11.


Article 2
Promotion and Protection of Investment

1. Each Contracting Party shall encourage and create favourable conditions for nationals or companies of the other Contracting Party to invest capital in its territory and, subject to its right to exercise powers conferred by its laws, shall admit such capital.

2. Investments of nationals or companies of either Contracting Party shall at all times be accorded fair and equitable treatment and shall enjoy full protection and security in the territory of the other Contracting Party. Each Contracting Party shall ensure that the management, maintenance use, enjoyment or disposal of investments in its territory of nationals or companies of the other Contracting Party is not in any way impaired by unreasonable or discriminatory measures. Each Contracting Party shall observe any obligation it may have entered into with regard to investments of nationals or companies of the other Contracting Party.


Article 3
Most-Favoured-Nation Provisions

1. Neither Contracting Party shall in its territory subject investments or returns of nationals or companies of the other Contracting Party to treatment less favorable than that which it accords to investments or returns of its own nationals or companies or to investments or returns of nationals or companies of any third State.

2. Neither Contracting Party shall in its territory subject nationals or companies of the other Contracting Party, as regards their management, use, enjoyment or disposal of their investments, to treatment less favorable than that which it accords to its own nationals or to nationals or companies of any third State.


Article 4
Compensation for Losses

1. Nationals or companies of one Contracting Party whose investments in the territory of the other Contracting Party suffer losses owing to war or other armed conflict, revolution, a state of national emergency. revolt, insurrection' or riot in the territory of the latter Contracting Party shall be accorded by the latter Contracting Party treatment, as regards restitution, indemnification, compensation or other settlement, no less favourable than that which the latter Contracting Party accords to its own nationals or companies or to nationals or companies of any third State.

2. Without prejudice to paragraph (1) of this Article, nationals and companies of one Contracting Party who in any of the situations referred to in that paragraph suffer losses in the territory of the other Contracting Party resulting from
	
	(a) requisitioning of their property by its forces or authorities,
	
	(b) destruction of their property by its forces or authorities which was not caused in combat action or was not required by the necessity of the situation, shall be accorded adequate compensation for the loss sustained during the period of requisitioning or through the destruction of the property. Resulting payments shall be freely transferable.


Article 5
Expropriation

1. Investments· of nationals or companies of either Contracting Party shall not be nationalised, expropriated or subjected to measures having effect equivalent to nationalisation or expropriation (hereinafter referred to as "expropriation") in the territory of the other Contracting Party except for a public purpose related to the internal needs of that Party and against prompt, adequate and effective compensation. Such compensation shall amount to the market value of the investment expropriated immediately before the expropriation itself or before there was an official Government announcement that expropriation would be effected in the future, whichever is the earlier, shall be made without delay, be effectively realizable and be freely transferable. The national or company affected shall have a right, under the law of the Contracting Party making the expropriation, to prompt review, by a judicial or other independent authority of that Party, of whether the expropriation is in conformity with domestic law and of the valuation of his or its investment in accordance with the principles set out in this paragraph.

2. Where a Contracting Party expropriates the assets of one of its own companies, in which nationals or companies of the other Contracting Party [it] shares, it shall ensure that the provisions of paragraph (1) of this Article [are] applies to the extent necessary to guarantee prompt, adequate and [effective] compensation in respect of their investment to such nationals or companies of the other Contracting Party who are owners of those shares.


Article 6
Repatriation of Investment

1. Each Contracting Party shall in respect of investments guarantee to nationals or companies of the other Contracting Party the free transfer of the [returns] from their investments, subject to the right of each Contracting Party [...] exceptional financial or economic circumstances to exercise equitably and [...] good faith powers conferred by its laws.

2. In the case of transfer of capital this shall be effected in accordance with the relevant laws of the two Contracting Parties.


Article 7
Exceptions

The provisions in this Agreement relative to the grant of treatment not less favorable than that accorded to the nationals or companies of either Contracting Party or of any third State shall not be construed so as to oblige the Contracting Party to extends to the nationals or companies of the other [...] benefit of any treatment, preference or privilege which may be extended by the former Contracting Party by virtue of
	
	(a) the formation of extension of a customs union or a free trade area or a common external tariff area or a monetary union, or
	
	(b) the adoption of an agreement designed to lead to the formation or extension of such a union or area within a reasonable length of time, or
	
	(c) any international agreement or arrangement relating wholly or mainly to taxation or any domestic legislation relating wholly or mainly to taxation.


Article 8
Reference to International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes

1. Each Contracting Party hereby consents to submit to the International Centre for the Settlement of Investment Disputes (hereinafter referred to as the Centre ") for settlement by conciliation or arbitration under the Convention on the Settlement of Investment Disputes between States and nationals of Other States opened for signature at Washington on 18 March 1965any legal dispute arising between that Contracting Party and a national or company of the other Contracting Party concerning an investment of the latter in the territory of the former. Such a company of one Contracting Party [in] which before such a dispute arises the majority of shares are owned by nationals or companies of the other Contracting Party shall in accordance with Article 25(2)(b) of the Convention be treated for the purposes of the Convention as a company of the other Contracting Party. If any such dispute should arise and agreement cannot be reached within three months between the parties to this dispute through pursuit of local remedies, through conciliation or otherwise, then, if the national or company affected also consents in writing to submit the dispute to the Centre for settlement by conciliation or arbitration under the Convention, either party may institute proceedings by addressing a request to that effect to the Secretary-General of the Centre as provided in Articles 28 and 36 of the Convention. In the event of disagreement as to whether conciliation or arbitration is the more appropriate procedure the national or company affected shall have the right to choose.

2. Neither Contracting Party shall pursue through diplomatic channels any dispute referred to the Centre unless
	
	(a) the Secretary-General of the Centre, or a conciliation commission or an arbitral tribunal constituted by it, decides that the dispute is not within the jurisdiction of the Centre, or
	
	(b) the other Contracting Party should fail to abide by or to comply with any award rendered by an arbitral tribunal.


Article 9
Disputes Between the Contracting Parties

1. Disputes between the Contracting Parties concerning the interpretation or application of this Agreement should, if possible, be settled through diplomatic channels.

2. If a dispute between the Contracting Parties cannot thus be settled, it shall upon the request of either Contracting Party be submitted to an arbitral tribunal.

3. Such an arbitral tribunal shall be consisted for each individual case in the following way. Within two months of the receipt of the request for arbitration, each Contracting Party shall appoint one member of the tribunal. Those two members shall then select a national of a third State who on approval by the two Contracting Parties shall be appointed Chairman of the tribunal. The Chairman shall be appointed within two months from the date of appointment of the other two members.

4. If within the periods specified in paragraph (3) of this Article the necessary appointments have not been made, either Contracting Party may, in the absence of any other agreement, invite the President of the International Court of Justice to make any necessary appointments. If the President if a national of either Contracting Party or if he is otherwise prevented from discharging the said function, the Vice-President shall be invited to make the necessary appointments. If the Vice-President if a national of either Contracting Party or if he too is prevented from discharging the said function, the Member of the International Court of Justice next in seniority who is not a national of either Contracting Party shall be invited to make the necessary appointments.

5. The arbitral tribunal shall reach its decision by a majority of votes. Such decision shall be binding on both Parties. Each Contracting Party shall hear the cost of its own member of the tribunal and of its representation in the arbitral proceedings; the cost of the Chairman and the remaining costs shall be borne in equal parts by the Contracting Parties. The tribunal may, however, in its decision direct that a higher proportion of costs shall be borne by one of the two Parties, and this award shall be binding on both Parties. The tribunal shall determine its own procedure.


Article 10
Subrogation

1. If either Contracting Party makes payment under an indemnity it has given in respect of an investment or any part thereof in the territory of the other Contracting Party, the latter Contracting Party shall recognise	
	(a) the assignment, whether under law or pursuant to a legal transaction, of any right or claim from the party indemnified to the former Contracting Party (or its designated Agency), and	
	(b) that the former Contracting Party (or its designated Agency) is entitled by virtue of subrogation to exercise the rights and enforce the claims of such a party.The former Contracting Party (or its designated Agency) shall accordingly if it so desires be entitled to assert any such right or claim to the same extent as its predecessor in title either before a Court or tribunal in the territory of the latter Contracting Party or in any other circumstances.2. If the former Contracting Party acquires amounts by assignment under the terms of an indemnity, the former Contracting Party shall be accorded in respect thereof treatment not less favourable than that accorded to the funds of companies or nationals of the latter Contracting Party or of any third State deriving from investment activities similar to those in which the party indemnified was engaged.


Article 11
Territorial Extension

At the time of definitive entry into force of this Agreement, or at any time thereafter, the provisions of this Agreement may be extended to such territories for those whose international relations the Government of the United Kingdom are responsible as may be agreed between the Contracting Parties in an Exchange of Notes.


Article 12
Entry Into Force

This Agreement shall enter into force provisionally on signature and definitively on the date of exchange of Diplomatic Notes between the two Contracting Parties notifying the completion of their respective constitutional procedures.


Article 13
Duration and Termination

This agreement shall remain in force for a period of ten years from the date of definitive entry into force. Thereafter it shall continue [...] force until the expiration of twelve months from the date on which either Contracting Party shall have given written notice of termination to the other. Provided that in respect of investments made whilst the Agreement is in force, its provisions shall continue in effect with respect to such investments for a period of ten years after the date of termination and without prejudice to the application thereafter of the rules of general international law.


In witness whereof the undersigned, duly authorised thereto by the respective Governments, have signed this Agreement.

Done in duplicate at London this 11th day of June 1975.

For the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland: James Callaghan
For the Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt: Ismail Fahmi